# Client-Server-Final

## Questions
How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

## Response
  #### During the development of my CRUD Python Module, creating maintainable, readable, and adaptable code was of the utmost importance. This allowed me to complete tasks for the first project which included showing the Create, Read, Update, and Delete functionality on the MongoDB. This code was built in a way where when I imported the module into the project two dashboard, I was able to call on my functions to solve different problems. Specifically, these included filtering the data and populating my data table in the dashboard. I believe that the CRUD Python Module could be used in the future if I had a project where I need to manipulate a MongoDB. The advantages of how I built this Module are because I created useful functions that can be applied in multiple situations. 
  #### The approach of solving a problem as a computer scientist is to understand the problem you are trying to solve, find a favorable solution to the problem, implement your solution, and testing your solution. This is the basic formula that I take when solving problems, but with this course, I feel that I took my problem solving to a whole different level. I broke down the main problem of creating a dashboard that interacted with the database using my CRUD module. For this assignment, there were so many "moving pieces" that I had to get functioning. I found in some instances that I would make modifications to say the pie chart and that would break my map and stop it from being displayed. For this reason, exactly, I focused on getting a component functioning perfectly and then moved onto the next task. 
  #### Computer scientists use technology to solve problems. This is so important because as we encounter more complex problems, having computers to assist us is crucial. Even from a perspective of saving time in the workplace, without computer scientists, simple tasks would be very time consuming, but instead, we have software to help us with everything from creating documents to communicating. When looking at a company like Grazioso Salvare, the work on a project like this would do a great deal to assist in their work. The dashboard allows them to create a comprehensive list of shelter dogs that fit specific criteria for them to train. They are training dogs to complete rescues and want to refine their search without manually looking through the tens of thousands of animals in the Austin Animal Center database. Simplifying their search will allow them to do their work better.
